
Section 01: Introduction
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is signal processing? I'm not trying to be funny
when I say that it is about processing signals.

To understand what it means to process signals, we
need to answer the questions:

	- what is a signal? 

	- what do I mean by process?


What is a Signal?

Typically, signals are time-indexed sets of values.
They are often associate with some physical phenomenon.
Examples include:

	- sound, as measured by changes in air pressure

	- temperature, as determined by changes in the
	  voltage in a sensor

	- biological systems, such as brain waves or
	  heartbeats

Less obvious examples are:

	- stock prices

	- images, these are 2-dimensional signals
	  indexed on position


What is Processing a Signal?

When we process a signal, we are doing something to
the values that typically results in different values.

We can think of it as a system in which the values we
start with are the input and the output is the result
of processing it.

An example of this is to produce a moving averge of
stock prices. The purpose of this processing is to
smooth out the fluctuations in the stock price, making
it easier to see the overall trend of the price.

Note: See video Moving Average of a Stock graph


Other Examples of Processing

	- model a signal in order to understand it.
	  For example, we may determine that the
	  signal is composed of a 5 Hertz sine wave
	  and a 20 Hertz sine wave

	- filter the signal. The term "filter" is used
	  widely in signal processing. While we often
	  use it in the same way it's used in English,
	  which is to 'filter out' or remove something,
	  it is also used more generally. Applying a
	  filter to a signal changes the signal 
	  (potentially)

	- find patterns in the signal, possibly to make
	  predictions


Analog Signals vs Digital Signals

It is common to see signals described as being analog 
or digital, with 'analog' representing the "real world"
or things with continuous values and 'digital' as being
somehting on a computer, which as discrete values.

Most signals can be plotted as an amplitude ( the 
y-axis) versus time (the x-axis). Each axis can 
represent discrete or continuous values, which leads to
four combinations.

Note: See video Analog vs Digital Signals graph

Note: See video From Analog to Digital Signals graph


What's Next?

	1. review of complex numbers and complex
	   exponentials

	2. quick review of Python



Vocabulary: Digitize, Digitized, Digitizing, Quantize,
	    Quanitized, Quantizing



